Well, hello! I'm back!
I was in the Antilles and of course, we couldn't film because we didn't have all our filming material there
and I was told that the quality of the video had to be good,
and that we had to keep up with the good work, otherwise people would leave bad comments.
Now I'm back. We agreed to film this Weekly Review, and what's the matter? Everyone is on holiday!
So I'm doing this with Lise who is filming at this very moment while Mathias is just sitting there doing nothing.
So... Well.
The news is pretty good, except that I caught a cold,
but apparently I'm not the only one, because everyone here has the flu. I don't know why...
Well it's because it's the time when people get ill, that's why!
I'm saying this because some people claim that people should have a sense of responsibility
when they ask for their social security reimbursements. A great idea, isn't it?
But people get the flu when there is the flu!
Therefore, people need medical treatment when they have the flu, not before, and not after, obviously!
I'm saying this because everything is political.
OK. Now, we just came back from the Antilles...
It was a trying trip! There's a 5-hour difference between Paris and the Antilles.
Physically, it was a tough trip.
Besides, I don't know if it's a consequence of climate change,
but it rains and the wind blows all day long, although it's not the rainy season.
Anyway, the two public meetings I did there interested a lot of people, among which the local media,
who were quite elegant I must say.
It's not always the case, so if I say that they were elegant, then I mean it.
Anyway, a lot of people came.
We expected less people, and as usual, since we don't have enough money to rent big rooms, we rented small rooms.
But the truth is that at this time of the year, all the rooms are rented, so I was lucky to find these two rooms.
There were people outside the room during the two meetings, and the atmosphere was special.
I'm telling you about the meetings, but I know a lot of you watched them live,
and the incredible part of this trip, well it was you!
We did live streams, and a 5-hour-difference live streams has incredible effects.
You should realize that besides the meetings I did in the Antilles,
I also did meetings here in mainland France in a way, with 2000 or 3,000 people watching live between 1 and 3 A.M.
That' quite impressive. Well...
At least it makes people who worked on these live streams happy.
They worked hard on the organization and tried to have as many viewers as possible.
There's another good piece of news.
The book version of the program, of which I already spoke in this review,
is one of the four most offered books for Christmas.
Now I'd really like to know why it was one of the four and not THE most offered book!
Well, I know why! You chickened out!
But some people had the courage to offer it.
And of course people feel surprised to find this under the Christmas tree,
wrapped in a nice gift wrap. A reg gift wrap I hope - because that's the color I'm usually associated with -
but you can also use a blue or a sienna gift wrap, they're the colors we chose for this campaign.
And don't hesitate to offer it for New Year's Eve, some people do that. It might come handy!
Also, I should add that several books will come out before the end of January.
There will be a paperback edition of the biographic interview I did with Marc Endeweld that was published by Seuil publishing house.
There will also be a paperback edition of "L'Ère du peuple" (The People's Era).
And, well, I added
I added a quarter of the book's original length as bonuses at the end
It will still cost 3 euros, but it's almost a new edition since the content will be quite different...
and I give a lot of importance to this book.
OK. Let's move on now.
First, we are now 140,000 subscribers,
and Lise did some visuals for the social media that show we outpaced Clinton and Trump.
The American population is bigger than France's,
which shows that you youtubers use this media a lot.
This new situation in which a candidate to the presidential election uses Youtube as a media
should not be seen as a candidate entering the Youtube game
but as Youtube entering the... let's say the most official political sphere,
because it's the presidential election.
And I think that those who analyze my quite spectacular progress on Youtube look at the issue the wrong way.
They should not understand it as me entering the Youtube game but rather as Youtubers involving in this situation.
Of course, you can still make the situation better by giving me the blue thumbs up,
and if you want to subscribe, do it, it's good for the channel.
We'll see whether you'll keep following me after the election,
because I'll keep using Youtube after I'm elected, of course.
Now let's move on to voter registration.
We can say what we did was a success, because we campaigned for this,
and you passed the information about voter registration everywhere.
The system was happily quick to jump into conclusions thinking that people would say
"Oh, I won't vote, they're all the same, etc".
Powerful people thought "Yeah, yeah, great! Keep being sick of it, stay home, we'll take care of the election!"
But unfortunately for them, it worked, and a lot of people registered to vote.
And I mean a lot! It impressed a lot of people,
and the news reached the official media, that realized that a lot of people registered.
Now let me ask a question: since a lot of people registered, it means that a lot of people are interested, and that more people could register.
You should know that there are still 9 million people who are not registered properly.
When you are note registered properly, you might not be aware of it,
but it means that you'll stand in line at the polling station in order to vote,
you'll have decided who you want to vote for, me maybe,
so you want to vote for me, and when you'll get to the ballot box, you'll be told that you are not registered.
So you'll go home, you'll have lost your time, and I will have lost a vote,
and even two votes, because if I lose a vote, it means that my opponents win one more vote.
I'm using this example because it is a very concrete one,
and it illustrates well the impact it can have if you want to vote for me.
But this works for every candidate, so you must register.
And more particularly, you must register if you want to vote for the candidate who will kick them out.
OK. So I asked for the registration deadline to be postponed. All it takes is a decree.
Why would that not be possible? Any idea? All it takes is to sign a decree.
There's enough time before December 31st. It only takes 5 minutes to sign a decree,
and the registration deadline could be postponed.
Don't tell me "Oh,  it's too complicated etc".
It's not! The last time, the registration deadline was postponed by 9 months for the regional elections, how surprising!
Not 15 days but 9 months!
It's true that the elections had been postponed too, but it shows that it's possible, that we already did this and we still know how to do this.
So much so that some deputies wrote a bill to make voter registration possible until the last minute,
but only after the 2017 presidential election!
What do you think of that? Don't you think it's a strange coincidence?
They agree that people should register to vote, but only after the most important election of our institutions. So...
You only have a few hours left to do it. Check it out online if you have a computer.
I assume you do have one, since you are watching this video!
But check out if you can register online.
Reading the form is all the time it takes,
so you can do it.
I think that if a lot of people register, it would set the mood to start the year 2017 that is about to begin.
This year is going to start with the Socialist Party's primary election. You know, it's not so...
Anyway, that's the way it is. That's all you'll hear about.
But we need more refreshing news!
For instance if we postponed the voter registration deadline, thousands of people could take part in the real election instead of this joke.
Now let me suggest a new contest that you might organize - the "Take me for a fool" contest -
everytime you hear a journalist who says "the primary election of the left".
Well, no! It's not the primary election of the left, but the primary election of the Socialist Party and its allies, period. And it doesn't have many allies!
I talk a lot. I need to drink.
Some water with good vibes! Hmm! Perfect!
It's the only mug that purifies water.
I mean the water has to be drinkable to begin with,
but it gets better when you pour it into the mug. Give it a try and you'll see!
So...
I will now tackle a serious issue.
It is the pardon granted to Jacqueline Sauvage.
I think everyone knows the story.
It's an awful story.
There's a committee that defended Jacqueline Sauvage. It asked the President to grant her a pardon.
A few months ago, the President of the Republic had granted her a partial pardon,
and the imbroglio became worse than it was before,
because a partial pardon was supposed to make her eligible for parole,
but then the judges considered she wasn't...
so they did not grant her parole.
Therefore, the committee became active again,
and all those who have fought for this cause from the beginning contacted Mrs. Eva Darlan,
who led this struggle with incredible energy and will.
She contacted a number of well-known figures, sent us messages,
and asked us to intervene, saying "I know it's the festive season..." - and that's true -
"and you might have other things to think about, but you have to do something".
So we did it.
A lot of people answered the call and signed the petition.
I don't know what effect it had on François Hollande,
but he did grant a pardon to Jacqueline. Sauvage, and now she's free.
Now...
I'd like you to read my arguments on... I think I posted them on Facebook.
There's the whole letter.
First, let me tell you that I understand those who are not satisfied with this pardon.
Some people wrote to me to say that she has already been judged twice by a jury,
and they think that changing the decision of a jury is not a republican attitude.
Well let me tell you that they're right!
The pardon power is in no way republican. It is a sort of monarchical relic,
so I will not oppose this argument, and I understand that some people might be shocked.
However, people should think about this case more philosophically, which I did.
To me, the pardon power does not pertain to substantive law.
It means that a man who has to take this decision - in this case it's a man, the President of the Republic -
should not refer to the legislation: "Is Mrs. Sauvage guilty or not?"
That's not the issue here, the case has been judged already, so it's not a matter of substantive law.
And the role of the President of the Republic is not to judge an appeal after an appeal was already judged.
It is a decision that is taken outside the normal, republican procedure that is acceptable to everyone,
the law enforcement that everyone has to comply with,
the law that was interpreted by judges after a jury said "Yes, this woman is guilty, etc, etc." OK?
We need to put things into perspective: the pardon does not pertain to the normal course of justice.
You have the right to question its legitimacy, and in the new constitution that we want to write,
you could perfectly decide to cancel the presidential pardon if you are elected or drawn by lot.
You will have the right to do that, but meanwhile, it is a reality.
Let us suppose that I had to face this situation.
I'd better think about it, because I stand as a candidate in the presidential election,
so I think myself as someone who could be elected.
And my opinion is that as long as the new constitution is not written by the constituent assembly and voted by the people,
I will obey the previous constitution, which means that I will have the right to pardon.
I would therefore have to behave as...
...as a responsible man, in a situation of which I would not be responsible for,
a situation that would fall on me, to use a colloquial expression.
So the pardon power is beyond - or below, or outside, if you will - substantive law.
It is somewhere beyond good and evil, because it applies to a case that is necessarily tragic.
When the President of the Republic has a pardon case in his hands,
the person has already been sentenced!
It means that all the judicial bodies already thought about the problem:
the case was examined by juries, by judges, by magistrates, lawyers defended the case etc.
The case is closed!
It went through the whole procedure until the appeal,
so you can see that the pardon power is beyond all that.
I'll make a comparison to illustrate in which specific domain,
in which... dimension of reality and human relations this power stands.
Many of you probably remember the Judgement of Solomon.
Two women claim to be the mother of a child.
They both claim the child as her own, and King Solomon - so goes the story -
hears the arguments of both women, but he cannot resolve the case.
He just can't!
And yet this child has to have a mother!
If Solomon himself has to judge the case, it means that no one knows who really is the mother of the child.
And the way he judges the case goes beyond good and evil.
We could even say that it is completely evil in a way, but King Solomon is beyond that, so here what he says:
"OK, since this case cannot be resolved, let's cut the kid in two!"
and no sooner did he finish his sentence that one of the women says: "No, no! The kid is hers!"
To King Solomon, it is clear that she is the mother of the child, because...
We don't know what the other woman said or thought about the case after that, because it's not in the story.
One could definitely write a novel about this!
Now, to stick to my point, we can see that the way he enables the truth to come out,
or at least the way the case is judged, that is, conditions that make it easier to make the right decision,
is not a method that pertains to substantive law.
Although there are lots of differences between this story and the case of Jacqueline Sauvage,
they more or less pertain to the same domain.
I wanted to tell you about that, and if you want to read my letter - well it would make me happy -
but more importantly, it could fuel the discussion.
This letter is an answer to people who wrote to me in good faith.
They wrote to say: "Not you! You can't do that! You are in favor of the Sixth Republic!"
"You are a republican and you end up advocating a power that is typically monarchical!"
And this is completely true, there's no doubt about that!
But I wanted to answer them, because I thought that they said this in good faith,
and that they were concerned about human relations and about justice.
The issue of justice is one of the great philosophical issues for every human being:
What is right? What is wrong? Is the law fair? Sometimes it is not, but why do we accept it anyway?
These are real issues!
But now, let's move on to another judgement that I absolutely disagree with.
Magistrates - some of them I mean - say that the pardon power should not exist.
Well if they think so, then we have to change the constitution.
The role of magistrates is to enforce the law, but in the current legislation and in the current constitution, the pardon power is a reality.
Therefore, it is written in the constitution that the President of the Republic can use this power when he is asked to,
and to me, those who enforce the law should not make any comment on this case, because the rule of law also applies to this case.
Speaking of reactions, I was very surprised that some people reacted to the pardon power
- a legal power! -
it's not an illegal decision,
because these people had nothing to say about the case of Christine Lagarde,
who "made a careless mistake" that cost 400 million euros,
and who was proven guilty, but her sentence will not remain on her criminal record, and she won't go to jail for a second.
I'm not saying I'd like her to go to jail, but shrewd legal experts might have thought there is a problem:
on the one hand, the sentence of a delinquent can be annuled if the disturbance ceased.
That's the law!
But what if the disturbance did not cease?
Mr. Tapie did not give the 400 million euros back, did he?
Those who were involved in this "arbitral" judgement that allowed, out of any legal framework...
Because arbitral tribunals do not pertain to legislation!
Well no one said it was not normal that the law was not enforced.
It's their job, isn't it?
So why do they feel so concerned about the fact that Mrs. Sauvage was pardoned when they don't have anything to say about Mrs. Lagarde?
They have nothing to say about that,
or about the fact that Jérôme Cahuzac did not spend a single night in jail,
whereas the brothers of Adama Traoré are in jail right now.
They were judged, and we know how they were judged!
And a few weeks ago, in the Weekly Review #8,
I told you about this wretched homeless person who was sentenced to 2 months imprisonment
because he stole some goat cheese!
There's something wrong in this country!
And if you think that people don't understand that, well you are greatly mistaken, dear rich and powerful!
You think you can do whatever you want as long as you don't get caught,
and that people will forget if you did something, because you think people are like you.
You think partying is enough to forget what happened the day before. Well it's not!
A lot of them don't have the means to party, and I think about them,
because, as you saw, there's the story of this woman who unfortunately had a miscarriage at work
because she was refused the breaks she asked for, and that she deserved given her condition.
Once again, I'm not a judge,
I won't deliver a judgement, and I did not analyze the ins and outs of this situation,
but we've had it up to here that so many people of modest means are being persecuted and ill-treated.
And people don't really give a hoot about this situation.
As to the rich and powerful, they deliberately don't give a hoot!
Fortunately, this Auchan cashier affair had the effect of breaking through the wall of indifference.
But you probably remember that this is not the first time that something like that happens.
It's not just an isolated case!
Come on!
There are tens of similar cases!
Do you remember our friend Emeline, the mailwoman?
She felt bad at work too, but her managers said: "Enough with this, back to work!"
and bam! She had a stroke!
A stroke, yes! And she almost died, because her managers didn't want to believe her!
Emeline is still there, and did La Poste (postal service) try to make up for their monstrous management mistake?
Did they tell her "Listen, that's not what we wanted, we're sorry"?
She would understand!
She's a human being!
"That's not what we wanted, we made a mistake, let's make it up to you!"
"Besides, there's good news, we need open-ended contracts. Would you like to become one of our permanent employees?"
Because before that, she was always hired under fixed-term contracts, and her delivery rounds were never the same.
They could offer her an open-ended contract!
But no, they don't! Do you know why?
Because these people just cannot admit that they're in the wrong!
So they offered to make arrangements, because she filed a complaint with the Labor Relations Board.
But that's not what you should do, Mr. Boss-of-La Poste who is so important, and other powerful people!
You must offer her an open-ended contract! I don't know what her status is, or what her working conditions were,
but let me tell you what you should do first.
The only humane and intelligent thing you could do
would be to improve her working conditions! That's what you should do!
But you won't do that. Instead, you'll try to eliminate the evidences!
OK... So I said what we all think, and I said it loud and clear.
Now don't just sit there doing nothing, we still have work to do.
Right now, employees who don't really have the possibility to assert their rights - and we'll see why -
are the employees of small businesses.
Everyone understands that it's harder to assert your rights when you're the only employee of a company.
It's easy to understand.
I'm not saying that all the employers of small businesses ill-treat their employees!
That's not what I'm saying!
What I'm saying is that the employees of small businesses don't have many rights,
but at least, they have the right to elect their union representatives.
Normally, you received the documents for the election. Well don't throw them away! Vote!
So... Let me explain why you should vote.
Mrs. El Khomry had the good idea of organizing the elections between now and January 12th.
A great woman Mrs. El Khomry! Isn't she?
Not so long ago, she was lecturing at us saying: "Article 49-3 (of the constitution) is a brutal Article",
yet it took three 49-3 to force
her bill into the legislature!
But she forgot about it and said Article 49-3 was a brutal Article.
Then why doesn't she just repeal her law?
Well, it's the same with these elections,
Mrs. I-love-democracy!
She organizes elections at the worse period, that is, the festive season, when you're not necessarily at home,
you're with your family maybe, and you have other things to think about.
That's the way these people are!
Right when employees who don't really have the possibility to assert their rights can do it,
they organize these elections in the worst possible conditions!
Remember them! Remember the name of those who have done these things for all these years!
If I happened to be the President of this country in a few months,
I guarantee you that I will use every possible mean provided by the constitution to change things as quickly as possible,
because the way they govern this country is unacceptable, that is, through constant deception,
or trying to prevent employees from asserting their rights, or from getting new rights.
Now let's end 2016 with a good piece of news: there's at least one happy man in this country, it's Mr. Ghosn.
He just earned 6 million euros.
Of course it might seem a lot for those who earn the minimum wage, since it was increased by 9 cents only,
but they're probably happy to know that someone earned the equivalent of 374 years of minimum wage in one day!
After all, why could we not be happy for others?
And if you think this is not fair, then you know what to do, but don't ever say you were not aware of this!
That's all for today. See you next week, because this review is coming back on a weekly basis.
And thank you Lise for working on your own while Mathias is doing nothing.